All you need to know guide to use the MIGHTY SPARK AR !!

Table of Contents:
1.What is Spark AR Studio?
2.How Businesses Can Use Spark AR Studio
3.Tips to create Spark AR
4.How to Create Your Own AR Effects with Spark AR Studio for instagram
5.Publishing and finishing

1.What is Spark AR Studio?

Spark AR Studio is an augmented reality platform for Mac & Windows that allows you to somewhat easily create AR effects for mobile cameras. 
Think of it like Photoshop or Sketch, but for AR.

2. How Businesses Can Use Spark AR Studio?

Businesses can use Spark AR Studio for advertising by creating an AR effect and uploading it to Facebook or Instagram for their audience to enjoy.
As noted above with makeup brand WeMakeUp, they were able to run an advertisement that allowed users to preview different lip shades that would be best on different skin tones.
Spark AR Instagram allows your brand to create interactive filters and AR effects that showcase your business’ products and services in a unique and modern way.
If you’ve ever wondered how to make a Snapchat geofilter or how to make an Instagram face filter, Snap AR studio will show you the step-by-step process for creating your own custom AR effect.
As a business, the first thing you need to decide is what business feature you want to advertise and how it will translate to a filter users can engage with.

3.Tips to create Spark AR.

These next couple of tips will serve as the ultimate guide to Spark AR studio so you can begin creating AR effects of your very own.

a.Face-Tracking - Before you can begin creating your custom filter you need to first create a face tracking effect. 
                  This will allow your design to identify a user’s face, follow their facial structure, and respond to different facial 
                  expressions users are enacting with a face mesh. 
                  This is where you will also add the different layers of your AR effect, from adding materials to applying texture to the filter.

b.The Simulator - As you are adding more layers and more depth to your AR effect, you can choose to see how it will look on a device with the simulator.
                 Simply click the drop down menu at the top of the simulator and select the type of device you want to see your effect in. 
                 You can also preview your effect on Facebook by clicking the device icon on the left sidebar and hitting “send to app.”

c.Face Reference Assets - Spark AR also has assets creators can use when designing their own AR effect. The sets all have different capabilities. 
                          For example, the first one is meant to be used as a scale for reference when creating objects and textures. 
                          The second is meant to be used when creators want to create their own custom textures. 
                          The third is for debugging effects.
                        
d.Best Practices Design Strategy - Keep it simple. This attitude is mainly for the benefit of the users you are servicing. 
                                  You want the effect to be straightforward so when users go to interact with your effect, 
                                  they know exactly what is going on and what they should expect.

e.Best Practices Effect Design - Make it personal. It’s easy to get lost in the number of different effects and filters you can add in AR,
                                 but when a user is completely unrecognizable because of those effects, AR loses its magic.
                                 Remember to allow users to keep their identity even with your designs so it still feels personal.
                                 
f.Best Practices Adding Interaction - Keep interactions obvious. Keep your interactions simple by using commands that users are already familiar with like
                                      zooming in and out or changing camera view with a double tap. This will allow users to enjoy your AR effects more 
                                      because you’re not detracting from the experience with complex commands.

g.Best Practices Using Instructions - Use platform-approved interaction instructions that indicate what the user will experience. 
                                      If you’re adding additional elements to your AR effect, make sure users can simply understand what
                                      is going on if they choose to engage. For example, copy like, “tap anywhere to see rainbow” 
                                      will orient users and let them know what and how they should interact with your effect.

4. How to Create Your Own AR Effects with Spark AR Studio for instagram

Step 1: Download Spark AR Studio
Spark AR Studio is the easy-to-use platform you need to create custom filters and effects. Currently, it’s available for Mac and Windows.

Step 2: Decide on your effect

Next, walk through the tutorials in the Learning Center to get a feel for the program’s interface. Once you’re ready to get started, decide whether you’ll create a filter
from scratch or choose from one of the eight templates.
We’re going to walk through the World Object template. This involves putting a 3D object into the real world, just like Coca-Cola Poland did with its polar bear.

Step 3: Getting started

You’ll see a placeholder object in the central panel when you open the template. That central panel is called the Viewport. This is where you’ll build your filter.
The iPhone 8 in the corner is the Simulator. This is where you’ll preview your work. Using the dropdown, you can change the Simulator from an iPhone 8 to another device.
To the left is the Scene panel. You’ll use the options here to edit your Instagram Stories AR filters.

Step 4: Upload a 3D asset

Choose a 3D asset for your filter from the AR Library or import your own. For this guide, we are importing a free asset from the AR Library.
The AR Library also allows you to choose from free audio files, animations and more.

Step 5: Edit the behavior of the uploaded graphic

Now, you’ll see your uploaded asset—in our case, a rotating pizza—in the Viewport. Using the Scene panel, edit how it looks, moves and interacts with the real-world. 
The edits 
will result in your custom AR filter.
For example, you can change the colour and intensity of ambient light. The below images show the 3D asset without ambient lighting (top) and with ambient lighting (below).

Step 6: Test your effect

You can send your test file to Instagram or Facebook to see how it works in Instagram Stories or Facebook Stories. Or you can download the Spark AR Player app.

Step 7: Publish your effect

Now, press the “upload” button in the bottom left-hand corner. You’ll find it right below the “test on device” button.
Keep in mind that your new effect won’t be published immediately. First, your creation will be reviewed to make sure it meets Spark AR’s policies and guidelines. 
This review process might only take a few days, or it could take up to one week.
Spark AR also has more details in its Learning Center on submitting newly created effects for approval.

This was all from my side and Keep Learning!!

#100 #CENTURY #LEARN #BYE !!


